title: Data Scientist
company: Goodparty
location: USA
description: Overview We are looking for a part-time (20-30 hours/week) data scientist or data analyst to contract with us on building internal reporting dashboards in Tableau for GoodParty.org , where our mission is to make people matter more than money in our democracy . This role is primarily focused on dashboard development and minor data transformation, supporting various teams across the organization. You will work with an existing data science contractor and collaborate with team leads as key stakeholders. This is a contract position for 4-6 weeks depending on start date, with the potential to extend. About GoodParty.org : GoodParty.org is empowering Independents to run, win, and serve so we can transform civic leadership. In 2024, we helped elect 3,444 Independent candidates into local offices across 48 states. Why? Americans – especially young people – have been losing faith in democracy. The rigged, two-party system has turned “Independent” into a dirty word. Voters are trapped between choosing the lesser of two evils or sitting out elections altogether. A majority of eligible voters (over 130M Americans), including more than half of Millennials and Gen Z, say that neither Republicans nor Democrats represent them. But they keep getting re-elected! Whether you’re concerned about healthcare costs, wars, the environment, our individual freedoms, or inequality, many great solutions are held back by the dark doom loop of dysfunctional partisan politics. While mainstream media and the two major parties focus on federal elections (Congress and the President), GoodParty.org is building from the bottom up. With over 500,000 elected offices in the United States—70% of which are uncontested—GoodParty.org is powering the movement to reclaim our communities from career politicians. We’re helping independents in local and state-level campaigns nationwide. Together, we’re building a truly representative democracy where society’s biggest problems are solved. How? GoodParty.org empowers independents to run, win, and serve in public office without the influence of partisan or big-money support. Through our free, AI-powered tools, we enable independent candidates to prioritize people over parties and community over corporate funding, transforming real people into civic heroes. We’re a platform, not a political party. And, it’s working! Starting with 11 wins in the 2023 election cycle, GoodParty.org set an audacious goal for 1,000 wins in 2024. We beat expectations – 3,444 candidates won this past November and are serving in office across 48 states! 40.3 million voters (26% of all 2024 voters) cast a ballot for our 6,317 candidates. Our general election win rate was 54.5%. Looking ahead, we’re building on our momentum and expanding our product offerings to help candidates deliver on their promises and serve their constituents effectively. Candidates who partner with us come from across the ideological spectrum and pledge to uphold people-powered principles, anti-corruption practices, and a commitment to civility. Together, we aim to transform civic leadership, bringing real accountability to public service and setting a new standard of leaders who prioritize the people they serve. GoodParty.org is founded by serial entrepreneur, Farhad Mohit , with over $1B in exits — Flipagram (now TikTok), Shopzilla, and BizRate. What you’ll do: Develop and refine internal-facing Tableau dashboards based on stakeholder requirements. Perform minor data transformations to ensure data is visualization-ready (may involve direct work in Databricks, PostgreSQL, or dbt). Assist with wireframing dashboard layouts and interpreting metrics. Collaborate with team leads and the data science contractor to align dashboards with organizational goals. Test and iterate on visualizations to optimize usability and insight delivery for cross-functional teams. Who you are: Strong expertise in Tableau, with a focus on building dashboards and applying data visualization best practices. 3+ years experience as a data analyst or data scientist. Experience with tools like Databricks, PostgreSQL, or dbt for light data transformation tasks. Familiarity with Figma, Balsamiq, or similar wireframing tools for designing dashboard layouts. Comfort with developing and refining internal Tableau dashboards based on stakeholder needs. Ability to thrive in a part-time contractor role, committing 20-30 hours per week for a minimum of 4 weeks, with potential for extension. Bonus if: You have familiarity with political/election reporting metrics You have worked at a data-driven startup You have experience studying, working, or volunteering in politics, political activism, or democracy reform You’re sick of sitting on the sidelines watching our democracy fail to meet its potential Why you should work at GoodParty.org : Join us in solving the biggest problem of our time – fixing our democracy – so all other problems can be solved. We’re a Public Benefit Corporation that prioritizes social impact over making money. Work where and how you like, on a fully remote team spread across the country. Join a passionate team with diverse political views focused on one mission. We’re fully funded for our mission. No stressing over whether the next round of funding will come through. Focus on making an impact. That’s what matters here. The pay rate for this remote contractor position will be between $45 to $60 per hour. This range reflects the range of possible compensation for this role at the time of this posting. We may ultimately pay more or less than the posted range. The hourly rate will be based on several factors including, but not limited to, relevant experience, skills, seniority, education, qualifications, certifications, and organizational needs. We reserve the right to modify this pay range at any time. We are not considering candidates currently based outside of the US, so please only apply if you are physically located in the US. Unfortunately, we are not able to provide sponsorship for any of our roles at this time. Interested candidates should submit: Resume outlining relevant experience